
# Include a short abstract / synopsis of your presentation OR a statement of interest for participating in conference if not presenting (max 250 words):

* For statement of interest, describe your past contributions to the field of AI safety/ethics and your reasons for attending.


The benefits of AI are reaped by developed nations while the global majority suffers disproportionate harms including the psychosocial side-effects of the erosion of online trust. My talk engages in a series of discussions starting with the perils of online misinformation being exacerbated by GenAI, shifts to drivers of systemic change involving AI-centric collaboration with newsrooms, civil society and governmental agencies, and closes with the promise of public-benefit AI technology for vulnerable populations viz. consumer-facing digital health literacy systems for hundreds of families in India and Bangladesh. I will highlight a roadmap to a sustainable and safer future. My work will emphasize our experiences with human-AI system design for the global majority working in 6 countries with 15+ partners reaching an audience of over a hundred million people, and receiving competitive grants, awards, and features in international broadcast media. All of this work is led by undergraduate and graduate students we have trained over an annual, award-winning fellowship for the global majority. 

# If you wish to share recent works, please provide bibliographical references (including links if possible):

 I run a nonprofit, SimPPL (https://simppl.org), that delivers Responsible AI and computing programs to hundreds of students in India. Through these programs, I train students to do research pubilshed at AAAI, ICWSM, ICML, NeurIPS, and other workshops as well as develop consumer facing AI tools for practitioners. SimPPL's ongoing and past research is being updated and made available at: https://simppl.org/research (15+ reports, papers published). We work in in India, Mongolia, Bangladesh, Germany, US, UK with civil society, journalists, and governmental agencies like the United Nations. Our work with the Sunday Times  resulted in Twitter initiating action against 400,000 Russian accounts (https://parrot.report) and Meta taking down 250+ adversarial threat pages reaching 100M views in Bangladesh ahead of the Prime Minister's fleeing (https://en.prothomalo.com/bangladesh/mukaz8xksm). Our digital health literacy systems advance safe behaviors in MIT-awarded and incubated systems deployed with 300+ families in India and Bangladesh for menstrual and maternal health (https://sakhi.simppl.org) featured in Rest of World (https://restofworld.org/2024/3-minutes-with-swapneel-mehta-simppl/). Our program is the only one in the history of the country to get two Google exploreCSR awards, and the inaugural Mozilla Responsible Computing Challenge award (https://simppl.org/fellowships).